---
permalink: /
title: "Personal Statement"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /ps/
  - /ps.html
---

In recent years, the emergence of ChatGPT and Deepseek have brought the development of AIGC to a new climax. After reading several works in this field by Chinese professors Zhou Zhihua and He Kaiming, I felt more development possibilities of this major in the future. Particularly in the fields of machine learning and reinforcement learning, I have come to recognize the immense value of artificial intelligence (AI) technology. Whether it is analyzing traffic flow through large-scale models to enable smart cities, classifying facial recognition data, conducting sentiment analysis in natural language processing, or even training AI models to detect AI-generated forgeries (the focus of my graduation research project), I have been consistently inspired by the transformative potential of AI. This realization not only aligns with my initial motivation for studying AI but also defines the direction I aspire to pursue in my future research endeavors.
During my undergraduate study at Ocean University of China, I studied machine learning, optimization theory, Computer Vision, Natural language processing, Intelligent computing systems, and other courses. In the final work of computer vision course, I tried to use the Diffusion model which is the most commonly used in the AIGC neighborhood, that is, apply artificial intelligence technology to the image processing field, and get the preliminary effect. This interdisciplinary practice makes me realize the broader application prospect of artificial intelligence. At the same time, the extensive formula derivation exercises in courses such as machine learning have greatly improved my mathematical abilities. I have mastered C, C++, Java, Python, and other programming languages. I can skillfully apply relevant regression and models of artificial intelligence, such as perceptron, support vector machine, naive Bayes model, and so on. I also actively understand the forefront of the artificial intelligence industry and have mastered the construction and use of the GAN network and Diffusion model. The knowledge taught in school enabled me to gain a holistic perspective on artificial intelligence, which is crucial for solving problems in the field of artificial intelligence.
To apply this knowledge to professional scenarios, I, as the team leader, initiated a study of six chess games. In the board representation, chess path evaluation, trend judgment, and other aspects of optimization find out the best strategy to improve the winning rate of six chess games. This is undoubtedly a great challenge to my modeling thinking and algorithm ability. After cooperative research with team members and a lot of trial and error, we established an evaluation function to calculate the situation through the "chess path" idea and used the α-β pruning algorithm to reduce the number of minimax algorithm evaluation nodes in the search tree. DTSS () function and iterative algorithm are used to implement a dual threat search algorithm, which can avoid invalid moves and improve the efficiency of the program. In this project, my technical application and programming ability have been greatly improved, I gradually understand the implementation principles and methods of AlphaGo and other similar programs. With the deepening of my understanding of artificial intelligence technology, I began to further combine artificial intelligence technology with practice. I innovatively introduced large models such as ERNIE Bot and Stable Diffusion into the construction of the mental health cloud platform of Ocean University of China, so that the large model can empower the construction of an information platform. These practical experiences not only consolidated my technical proficiency but also enhanced my ability to face challenges and solve problems innovatively. Finally, I participated in the technology transfer project of Ocean University of China and Stanford Qingdao Research Institute, and also supplemented my knowledge in market research and intellectual property law to further broaden my knowledge.
In the long term, I aspire to refine my current concept of "Deep Interactive Anti-Counterfeiting through Multimodal Features" and publish a paper on this topic at AAAI. To be specific, the field of DeepFake detection presents significant challenges and opportunities. While models like Clip, Blip, and ViLT have achieved over 98% accuracy in generative tasks, the accuracy of DeepFake detection models remains around 88%, indicating a need for further research. Current methodologies often focus on temporal patterns or visual frameworks, but there is a lack of efficient and accurate multimodal approaches. My undergraduate research project addressed this gap by proposing a method that emphasizes deeper integration of multimodal features. However, this approach still has limitations, and I am eager to explore it further
